---
title: Introduction (2.2a)
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /2.2a
---



Examining how a team has rendered Biblical terms helps ensure consistency in the way those key terms are being translated.


There are two tools to help with this. _The Biblical Terms Tool_ and its mini version the _Biblical Terms Renderings window_.


### The Biblical Terms Renderings window {#c89ec29a235a4d44b194b1912d290394}

- is a simplified version.
- opens as a panel
- shows the biblical terms for the current verse.
- is designed to be used alongside a translation as it is drafted and edited.
- It is available directly on the project **menu**, under **Tools**.

### The Biblical Terms tool {#7ee4b3bd9cb745529d238646b133b1fc}

- has the same core functionality but with some additional features
- an expanded toolbar and a find filter.
- more menu options,
- a count column,
- a second display of the renderings of the selected biblical term and any description that has been added.
- a concordance of the relevant verses
- an option to display comparative texts.
- the Biblical Terms window is designed to be used in a larger window.
- expand the menu to access it.

### Core functionality shared by both tools {#d704e0d68b1844578628b70395692c80}

- The table lists the biblical terms that occur in the selected range of verses.
- In both tools, you can change the verses filter to see more terms listed.
- The full Biblical Terms Tool is used with a larger verse range for checking consistency across many chapters or books.

**Transliterate terms**


If you can’t easily read the Greek and Hebrew alphabet, you can choose to view the terms in Latin script.

1. In either tool, click the **menu** for the window.
1. Under **View** click **Transliterate terms**.
	- _The Terms are now shown in Latin script_.

**Renderings column**

- contains the actual renderings, or translations, of the biblical terms.
- shows all the renderings identified or guessed.
- shows how the term has been rendered elsewhere in this project.
- If the panel is open as you type the initial draft of the verse, it acts as a prompt, which prompts consistency.
- The **orange background**
	- A rendering has not been identified for that Biblical term.
	- Or if a rendering is shown but with an orange background there is a computer guess that needs to be confirmed or rejected.

**Found column**

- ✓ contains a checkmark or tick when a confirmed rendering is present in **all** the verses in the current verse range.
- ? contains a **question mark** when a **guessed** rendering is found in **all** the verses.
- is **blank** if **any** of the verses included in the verse range don’t contain an identified or guessed rendering.

### How does Paratext know what the key Biblical terms are? {#f60ea8f79d8d41a3b2037a5a1f8742d4}

- Each project is linked to a Biblical terms list.
- It is best to use the Project Biblical Terms list, populated with terms from the other lists.
- The project administrator needs to select the list.
