---
title: Identify Renderings (2.2b)
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /2.2b
---


- Open the **menu** for the project and select **Biblical Terms Renderings**.

There are two ways to identify a rendering of a biblical term in the mini Biblical Terms Renderings panel.

- Paste or type the rendering in the Edit renderings dialog
- Drag and drop

### Using the Edit renderings dialog box[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.2-Biblical-terms/2.2b#using-the-edit-renderings-dialog-box) {#e50fe9f9c66445db9ffe6928f5f5afa7}

1. Double-click to select the rendering in the text.
1. Press **Ctrl C** to copy it.
1. Double-click the Renderings cell in the row for the Biblical Term.
	- _The Edit Renderings dialog box opens_.
1. Type or paste it in the Renderings box.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _The rendering is now shown in the Renderings column, and a tick is shown in the Found column to show it is present in this verse_.

### To approve a guessed rendering[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.2-Biblical-terms/2.2b#to-approve-a-guessed-rendering) {#e515eb3db83e446fbe78cbfa42dee943}


The guessed rendering is shown in the Renderings box with its orange background.

1. Double-click the Renderings cell
	- _The Edit Renderings dialog box opens_.
1. Select the box “**Approve guessed renderings**”.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _The orange background is removed_.

### Drag and drop – one-time setup[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.2-Biblical-terms/2.2b#drag-and-drop--one-time-setup) {#fd9f32d394054afe98a192f35d86f2c6}


By default, drag and drop is disabled in Paratext to prevent you from reordering words by accident.

1. Open the main Paratext menu.
1. Under Paratext, click **Paratext Settings.**
	- _The Paratext Settings dialog box opens_.
1. “Enable Drag-and-Drop in Text Windows” is **not selected**.
1. Click the checkbox.
1. Click **OK** to save the settings.
	- _Drag and drop is now enabled_.

### Using Drag and drop[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.2-Biblical-terms/2.2b#using-drag-and-drop) {#6b5106842025498fb629f81631249007}

1. First, select the relevant word or phrase.
1. Then click on the selection but keep holding down the **left** mouse button.
1. Whilst keeping the mouse button down, drag the mouse pointer to the row for the term in the Biblical Terms Renderings panel.
1. Let go of the mouse button.
	- _The word appears in the Renderings column_.

### Using the full Biblical Terms window[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.2-Biblical-terms/2.2b#using-the-full-biblical-terms-window) {#fed38ee58424487e815009c85e83027e}


The full Biblical Terms window provides another way to identify a rendering and approve a guess.

1. Open the **menu** for the window.
1. **Expand** the menu.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Biblical Terms**.
	- _In the Biblical Terms window, the lowest pane displays the verses where the selected Biblical term occurs_.

### To identify the rendering of a biblical term[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.2-Biblical-terms/2.2b#to-identify-the-rendering-of-a-biblical-term) {#df01cc32902a42e1ab293afa66586b8c}

1. Select the rendering in the verse text.
1. On the toolbar, the button “**Add Rendering**” identifies the selected text as a rendering. (or Ctrl+A)

**To approve the guessed renderings for a biblical term**

1. Select one or more biblical terms (using Ctrl or Shift-click)
1. Open the **menu** for the window.
1. Click “**Approve guessed renderings in selected terms**”.
