---
title: 14. Printing Drafts
sidebar_position: 8
slug: /14.PD
---



**Introduction**  In this module you will learn how to print a draft of your translation for checking and revising.


**Before you start**  You have entered and checked your translation in Paratext 9 and are now ready to print out a copy. Your project must be registered before you can print.


**Why this is important**  It is much easier to revise and check your work on paper than on the computer. You can also give it to more people if it is on paper.


**What you are going to do**  You will first produce a PDF version of your translation, which you can print or share with others (including non-Paratext users). If necessary, you can copy the PDF file onto your USB stick and take it to a computer with a printer.


## 14.1 Create a PDF file {#f6c39f92a81d44aead7aa92c0f6bb317}


:::caution

Make sure you have completed the **markers check** before printing a draft.

:::



1. **≡ Tab**, under **Project** &gt; **Export Draft PDF**
1. Check that your project is selected.
1. Choose which book(s) and chapters or priority to print.

### Choose the page settings as follows {#ff7614d604f1485c8c6c4de117939575}


Choose the page settings as follows

1. Page size:
    - 210mm, 297mm (A4) or
    - 148mm, 210mm (A5)
1. Columns: 1
1. हाशिए:
    - 25 mm (for A4) or
    - 12 mm (for A5)

### Choose the font for the text {#2f450c521a5a46e69f24dc8ef01b4262}

1. Text body font: Charis SIL (or Charis SIL Compact)
1. Size: 10 (or 11)

### Choose the layout settings {#bcd83f846ef549d2ac75fcb83c8df8e6}

1. Line spacing:
    - 1.0 (for single spacing)

### Choose the advanced settings {#41e44273d63f472c9586845b91bbfe2b}

1. Click on the **Advanced** tab
1. Choose the fonts
1. Choose what you want in the **Running header** (the text at the top of the page).
1. Check **mirror layout on odd and even pages**
1. Make any other choices as needed.
1. Click **OK** and wait, the file will open in your PDF reader.
    - _If there are marker errors, a message box will appear_.
        - Click **No**, then correct the errors and try again.

:::caution

The first time you print a draft it takes a long time collecting information on the fonts. But it will be much quicker the next time.

:::




:::info

With Paratext’s Export to PDF feature, each chapter will start on a new page! You may want to consider **ptxprint** a companion software for [**Paratext**](https://paratext.org/), PTXprint allows you to create high quality PDFs for trial publications of scripture. Available from [https://software.sil.org/ptxprint/](https://software.sil.org/ptxprint/)

:::




## 14.2 Print a PDF {#97607e0a7f17475e9a915e87124479b3}


In Adobe Reader

1. (Make sure the PDF file is open.)
1. **File** &gt; **Print**
1. For A5
    - Choose **Booklet**
    - Orientation: **Portrait** (for newer printers or landscape for older printers especially Win7)
1. To print double-sided
    - Click on the **Printer Properties** button
        - _A dialog is displayed which will may be different but will have a way of setting double-sided._ For example
        - Click on **Finishing**
        - Choose **duplex** or **two sided**.
        - Click **OK**
    - Click **Print**

:::tip

If you want to follow a punctuation system (such as French) and have spaces automatically inserted before complex punctuation, then see a consultant to have changes made to your PrintDraftChanges.txt

:::




## 14.3 Copy PDF file to a USB stick {#2f0e6aec647e495db41b1992e5f40094}


:::info

Paratext saves the PDF file in the PrintDrafts folder of your project folder. For example, C:\My Paratext 9 Projects\XXX\PrintDraft

:::




:::tip

There are many ways to copy files. One method is described below.

:::



1. Hold the Windows Key and type **E**
    - _Windows Explorer opens._
1. Go to your **My Paratext 8 Projects** folder.
1. Double-click on your project folder
1. Double-click the **PrintDraft** folder
1. Right-click on the desired PDF file
1. Choose **Send to**
1. Choose your USB stick.
