---
title: Spell Check Red Squiggles (2.1f)
sidebar_position: 5
slug: /2.1f
---



You can choose to see words which have undecided or incorrect spelling status highlighted with a squiggly underline.


### How display spelling errors {#009c499242564d20a26872796ef62388}

- Open the **menu for the project**.
- Under **View**, click **Display Spelling Errors**.
	- _Words which are not known to be correct are now highlighted with a squiggly underline_.
- OR click Display spelling on toolbar.

### Red squiggles {#65152506a0fa4da38f4f23600aea4503}


A red squiggle is displayed on words which are incorrect or which Paratext calculates are probably incorrect.


### Grey squiggles {#3ae62f75007540c298619a998c475cd2}


Grey indicates that Paratext doesn’t know anything about the spelling status and can’t work out if it is suspicious.

- _These words are all undecided_.

### Record the correct spelling {#f7c246e63d594200baa842b363b283d0}


If a spelling is wrong, it is helpful to have Paratext record what the correction is.

- Right click the word.
	- _The Correct Spelling dialog opens_.
- Select one of the suggested spellings or type in the **Correct Spelling** box.
- To make the change click **OK**.
	- _Paratext saves the new spelling as correct, sets the old spelling to incorrect, saves the correction AND offers to make the change in all the places the old spelling is used_.

### Remove the squiggle {#034d8ad354fc4828ad7a68bb76474f70}

- Right click the word.
	- _The Correct Spelling dialog opens_.
- Click **OK**.
	- _Paratext saves the new status and removes the squiggle_.

### Right-click menu {#e25820a5608d443287de7eb29bf433f6}

- Right-click a squiggle a second time to get the menu
- If you wanted the Correct Spelling dialog, simply right click the word again.
- Right-click the word, choose Spelling to open the Correct Spelling dialog for this word.
