---
title: Spell Check Current Book (2.1b)
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /2.1b
---



In this video we learnt how to do the second task in checking spellings how to use the feature “Spell Check Current Book”.


It is helpful to have used Approve Spelling of Common Words first.


## Spell Check Current Book {#3e4926b91981417ebac5db168a657e60}

1. Open the menu for the project.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Spell Check Current Book**.
	- _The Wordlist tool opens in a special filtered mode_.
	:::tip

		It is only showing the words in current book which are Incorrect or Undecided. 


		:::


### Set spelling status {#14e05623ede34e4abc5cba59c0d867b2}

1. Click in the row for that word.
1. To mark a word as **correct**, click the **green** checkmark.
1. To mark a word as **incorrect**, click the **red** X.

### Make correction {#2143a964cf6f4dc2a98247919c8ba61c}

1. Click on the row for the word.
	- _Paratext lists all the references with that word._
1. Click the red X for the word
	- _Paratext opens a dialog asking what the correct spelling is and making some suggestions based on similar words_.
1. Use a suggestion or type in a new spelling,
1. Click **OK**.
	- _Paratext then has you check each replacement in context_.
1. Click **Yes** to change the word
1. Click **No** to skip this verse
1. Continue for all other verses.

:::note


Please note, that although we are only spell checking the current book, the Wordlist tool corrects the spelling of this word in **all of the other books** where it occurs as well. However, Paratext will only make those changes if you have permission to edit those books. 


:::


### Use an alternative spelling {#4ef51ac24b094618ae99653fb4225982}


Sometimes Paratext will suggest an alternative spelling for a word and this is shown in blue.

1. _To use a spelling, click on the blue link_.
	- _Paratext opens a dialog box and shows the "Before", and then with the new spelling, labeled "After_.

		:::tip


		This allows you to see the word in context before you make any changes. 


		:::

1. If you are **sure** that the change should be made in this verse, click **Yes**.
1. Otherwise, click **No** to skip making the change in this verse.
	- _Paratext will then make the change in all of the remaining verses_.

### Correct misspelled words when Paratext has no suggestions {#964456988cf3490eae9519afc6cda37b}

1. When I click on the red X, Paratext can only find a few words that are similar.
	- **When none of the words listed are the correct spelling of this word**.
1. Click in the **Correct Spelling** box and edit the spelling.
1. Click on the **OK** button to continue.
	- _Paratext will show each verse where this word occurs_.
1. Click the [**Yes**] button to accept the change and to view the next occurrence.

### See more words {#ae95cfa4dd124a5f829f943066a25503}


Paratext does not load all the potentially misspelled words into this window at once.

- Scroll down, to **More items available…** and click
	- _Paratext adds more words to the list for me to check_.

:::tip


You will probably have to click "More items available…" several times until Paratext finds no more words that need checking in the current book.  Note: Paratext learns as you make corrections, so the next list of items changes depending on your corrections to the current list.


:::

