---
title: More Features of the Wordlist (2.1d)
sidebar_position: 3
slug: /2.1d
---



In this video we looked at some features of the Wordlist tool that we didn’t cover or only covered in passing in the other videos on spell checking.

- Wordlist tool is the key tool for spell checking in Paratext.
- It is an inventory of all the words in your project and their spelling status.

### Open the Wordlist {#51fa11f66fc942c0a029cbde2292a32e}

- On the project’s menu under **Tools**.
- **OR** (quicker) right click on any word in the scripture text, and select **Wordlist**.
	- _This opens the Wordlist tool with that word selected_.

		:::tip
		
		You can use the right click option even when the wordlist tool is already open. 
		
		:::
		



### Filters {#5edc2f52e7bc494d8570d16911674281}


Across the top of the Wordlist window are various filters.

- In the Words filter, you can filter by spelling status.
- The Verses filter allows you to reduce the range of scripture text the words are drawn from.

**To turn off a filter**

- Choose the most broad option in the filter list.

**Using the Find Word filter text box**

- You can search in the words themselves.
- Type a word or part of word
	- _There is no need to press Enter; the search happens straight away_.

### Change the spelling status of the words {#b91c7a9d549b4f289172065382c5dabd}


The tool works in the same way, verifying replacements and saving corrections. If you change your mind on a selected status, or realise you have made a mistake, you can always set it back to Undecided in addition to choosing Correct or Incorrect.


### To turn off the Find filter {#1caa0ca4c7134d2788c998bb236dbec2}

- backspace over your search string or use the All Words option on the Words filter menu.

### Sort {#f432f6b3a2f54c078c4c619898145b33}

1. Click any of the column headers.
1. Clicking a second time reverses the sort order.

### Select more than one word at a time {#e35a5419b12a41d286c95f4f2f44ed17}

- Use Shift+click for a range or Ctrl+click for any rows.

### Change the status of more than one row {#3eddc9aca0a044e1bfbce0dae7298fde}

1. Select the row(s)
1. Open the menu for the window.
1. Use one of the **Set Spelling Status** menu options to change the status of all the selected words at once.

### View old spelling errors {#a16d97e8b6b847e795eb148972f80a6e}

1. Open the menu for the Wordlist window.
1. Under View, click **Show reviewed words which no longer exist in project**.

:::info


We can now view words we know have zero occurrences that we corrected or changed the status of previously. 


:::


### How to delete a wrong saved correction {#b4054c8bd6214f469c8eee1af74e4ad4}


**If actually correct**


If a word is marked as incorrect with a saved correction, and the word is actually spelled correctly

- Click **Correct**.
	- _The saved correction is removed_.

**If it is actually incorrect**


If on the other hand the word is spelled incorrectly, but you accidentally selected the wrong correction,

- Click the **x** again, even though it is already the selected status.
	- _Paratext gives you a fresh opportunity to enter or select the right correction_.

### Capitalisation {#cae85a07dab54c74be11146bc8d5ff6b}


Paratext takes sentence position into account when analysing words and only lists words which are probably proper nouns with their capital letters.

