---
title: Reference check (3.4a)
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /3.4a
---



The reference in a parallel passage heading or a cross reference has an icon beside it. When you click on the icon, Paratext opens a Quick Reference window to that passage.


### Problem with reference {#296b9dfc45c34bf588a927491a3de6b9}


If there is a problem with the reference, the icon has a **red X** on it.


By hovering over the red X, you can see a description of the problem.


### Scripture reference settings {#e25d265a1629458c860339adef8d09a2}


:::caution


Only project administrators can change these settings. 


:::

1. Open the menu for the project.
1. Expand the menu.
1. Hover over **Project Settings** and click **Scripture Reference settings**.
	- _Three tabs are displayed: Reference Format shows the punctuation and Book names_.

### To view a list of the errors {#3753262cfab545419dde9e7e71e10351}


_From the Assignment and progress_

- Click the number of issues beside the check.
	- _Paratext opens a panel showing the reference errors_.

**Using the menu**

1. Open the menu for the project.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Run Basic Checks**.
1. Select the check and the Books to check.
1. Click **OK**.

### View an error {#53c45a4ab8664640b6b60117760ef7e0}

- Double click the item in the list.
	- _The project window scrolls to show the error and selects the part Paratext finds problematic_.

### Common errors {#af072ed585ca445eb0bd15c1d16c397d}


You might need to refer to the project’s **Scripture Reference Settings** to see what is valid for your project so you can correct the errors.

- **Invalid chapter/verse separator**
	- The separator is often either a period (full stop) or a colon between the chapter number and the verse number.
	- Correct the character.
		- _When Paratext recognizes that the error is fixed, the_ _**red x**_ _on the icon goes away_.
- **Invalid verse separator**
	- The separator is usually either comma (with or without a space).
	- For a **range of verses**, use the range of verses separator, which, is usually a hyphen.
- **Invalid book**
	- In the book names tab, you set three names for each book: the long name, the short name, and an abbreviation.
		- Set the names to be used for \xt field and parallel references.
		- Edit the book name.
			- _The error goes away_.
- **Invalid verse separator**
	- Errors for this problem can be harder to see.
	- Check the separator character and any spaces.

### Other Possible Errors {#858bbf1fdba44ca78c336601c7fd3659}

- Paratext only checks for references in \r, \ior, \x, \xo, \xt, \fr.
- Other markers are not checked. A way to spot that a marker isn’t being checked is to notice when the reference icon is **missing**.
