---
title: Quotations (3.4b)
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /3.4b
---



The Quotations check examines quotation marks in the text, and verifies that they follow the project’s rules for quotations.


### Quotation rules {#10b1f2bc1eb84b638c46c1e5ad3163ca}


Only administrators can change the rules, but you can look at them.

1. Open the **menu** for the project.
1. Expand the menu.
1. Under **Project Settings** click **Quotation Rules**.

See the example at the bottom of the dialog box to see the three levels of quotes.

1. Quotes
1. Quotes within quotes, and
1. Quotes within quotes within quotes.

In addition to opening and closing quotation marks, there is a continuer quotation mark.


### Project plan {#7e5ae116e81548c0bbe887729592ff32}


To view a list of the errors

1. Click the blue Assignments and progress button
1. Check for outstanding issues for Quotations
1. Click the **number of issues.**
	- _Paratext opens a panel showing the quotation errors_.
1. To view an error in the scripture text, double-click the item in the list.
	- _Paratext selects the quotation mark or text it finds problematic_.

You do need to have **permission to edit** the relevant chapter in order to correct each issue.

1. Correct problems adding missing quotation marks and continuers.
1. Click **Rerun** and see if the error goes away.

	:::tip
	
	Several issues listed can be caused by one error. It can take some careful detective work to figure out the cause of the problem.
	
	:::
	



### List all quotation marks near the error {#21b343c0419247d68ca2d47c3bc9b724}


If you are struggling to see the cause of an error, it can help to see a list of all the quotation marks near the error.


Ask your administrator to turn this option on for you.

1. Open the **menu** for the project.
1. **Expand** the menu.
1. Under **Project Settings** click **Quotation Rules.**
1. Check the box labelled **Flag all quotes near other errors.**
	- _When you rerun the check, there are many more items listed (but not all are errors)_.
	- _Nearby quotation marks have …… at the start_.
1. Double-click elements in the list to step through the opening and closing quotation marks and discover what is missing.

### View a single list of quotation marks for the entire project {#49733866a2e241619da9b1c150d00cbb}

1. Open the **menu** for the project.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Run Basic Checks…**
1. Select the **Quotations check**.
1. Select the books you wish to check.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _The list now displays errors from all the checks that were selected and in all the books selected_.
