---
title: Quoted Text (3.4c)
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /3.4c
---



The Quoted Text check has nothing to do with quotes in the text marked with quotation marks.


Rather, this check verifies that any text marked as quoted in a footnote (\fq) or cross-reference (\fx) or keyword (\fk) matches the text in the verse.


### Adding \fq, \fx[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4c#adding-fq-fx) {#c5d46c419d2d4e40949fe9e5cb80d23f}

1. Select text (in the verse)
1. Insert a footnote (Ctrl+Shift+N)
	- _The text is copied into the footnote with the quoted text markers_.

A **discrepancy** will arise if the verse text is edited **after** the text is quoted in the footnote, and no one remembers to **update** the footnote.


### Run check from Assignments and Progress dialog[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4c#run-check-from-assignments-and-progress-dialog) {#c75da7d65d3d433aac6289d2eabf03d8}


To view a list of the Quoted Text issues

1. Open the Assignments and Progress dialogue (blue button),
1. Expand Stage 2
1. Click the issue count.
	- _Paratext opens a panel showing the issues_.
1. To view the mismatching text in the project window, double-click the item in the list.
	- _Paratext selects the quoted text that needs updating_.

You need to look at the verse text to figure out what is different.

1. Correct the quoted text.
1. To verify you have correctly fixed the problem, click **Rerun**.
	- _The corrected issue is removed_.

### Run Quoted Text check across the entire New Testament[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4c#run-quoted-text-check-across-the-entire-new-testament) {#7c40ce10030b498ebdb88bdcba49f085}


To do this,

1. Open the **menu** for the project.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Run Basic Checks…**
1. Select the **Quoted Text check**.
1. **Deselect** any checks you don’t wish to run at the same time.
	- _You can select more than one check at a time and the results will be displayed in one list_.
1. **Choose** the books you wish to check.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _The list now displays errors from all the checks that were selected and in all the books selected_.
