---
title: Unmatched Pairs of Punctuation (3.4d)
sidebar_position: 3
slug: /3.4d
---



The Unmatched Pairs of Punctuation check examines punctuation characters that should always occur in pairs to make sure that there are no unpaired ones.


Punctuation examined by this check includes parentheses, square brackets and curly brackets.


This check _does not_ check quotation marks.


### View and change the list of punctuation[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4d#view-and-change-the-list-of-punctuation) {#054a373f27864028994cf07b6cf1b2bf}

1. Open the **menu** for the project.
1. **Expand** the menu.
1. On the **Tools** menu, hover over **Checking Inventories**.
1. Click **Unmatched pairs of Punctuation**.
	- _The Unmatched Pairs of Punctuation Inventory opens_.
1. Click **Options**.
	- _Each pair is listed with the first character, then a slash, then the second character, followed by a space_.
1. Click **OK** to save the changes.
	- _The check will now report every occasion either of these marks occurs in isolation_.

### Run Check from the Assignments and Progress[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4d#run-check-from-the-assignments-and-progress) {#ac7ac5eb1be64455b8ba996594fcc9be}


To view the issues,

1. Click the **issue count**.
	- _The list of issues opens or updates an existing list window_.
1. Double-click an issue to see the problem in context.
1. Edit to correct the problem.
1. To verify we have solved this problem, click **Rerun**.

### Run Check across a range of books[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4d#run-check-across-a-range-of-books) {#65828f68ef994958a107699ec2340031}

1. Open the **menu** for the project
1. Under **Tools**, click **Run Basic Checks**.
1. Select the **Unmatched pairs of punctuation** and the book range you wish to check.
1. Click **OK**.
