---
title: Capitalization (3.4f)
sidebar_position: 5
slug: /3.4f
---



The Capitalization check looks for words that might be incorrectly capitalized.


The capitalization check depends on three inventories:

1. the Mixed Capitalization inventory,
1. the Punctuation Followed by a Lowercase Letter inventory
1. and the Markers followed by a lowercase letter inventory.

To view the inventories,

1. Open the **menu** for the project.
1. **Expand** the menu.
1. Hover over **Checking Inventories**.
1. The three inventories that this capitalization check depends on are listed together at the bottom of the menu.

### Mixed Capitalization Inventory[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4f#mixed-capitalization-inventory) {#80e5bf06807f4d5a8f36445e19254e43}


Some languages capitalize the root of a proper noun, even when it is not the first letter due to a prefix.

1. Open the Mixed Capitalization Inventory
1. Click the column heading for **Mixed Capitalization Word**
	- _The table is sorted by word to more easily see patterns_.
1. Click **Options**.
1. Enter lowercase prefixes
1. Click **Capitalized Prefixes**
1. Enter the capitalized forms.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _The forms with those prefixes have been removed from the list_.
1. Go back into the **Options** dialog and add any others as well.
1. Click **OK**.

Any remaining forms will be flagged by the Capitalization check.


### Markers followed by a lowercase letter[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4f#markers-followed-by-a-lowercase-letter) {#b175201511ce4dcb94063d48036a193b}


This inventory is where you identify markers that don’t have to be followed by a capital letter. These are markers that can occur in the middle of a sentence.

1. Open the inventory.
1. Click the **Count** column to sort the most frequent ones to the top.
1. Use **Valid** and **Invalid** to mark each marker.
1. Click **OK** to save the work done in the inventory.

### Punctuation followed by a lowercase letter[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4f#punctuation-followed-by-a-lowercase-letter) {#553459d9dbba4022931329da338e0694}


This inventory lists all the times a punctuation character is followed by a lowercase letter.


Use the **Valid** and **Invalid** buttons for each punctuation character.


:::caution

You should not choose Valid unless that punctuation can always be followed by a lowercase letter.

:::



1. It can be helpful to check the box ‘**Show sequences**’.
	- _The dialog then also lists unique sequences of punctuation which are followed by a lowercase letter_.
1. Click **Options**
1. Add any abbreviations that end in a full stop or period.
1. Click **OK**.
1. Click **OK**.

	:::tip
	
	The more thoroughly you work through those inventories to mark what is valid and invalid or to specify patterns though the Options dialogs, the fewer false issues will be found when you run the Capitalization check.
	
	:::
	



### Run Check from Assignments and Progress dialog[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4f#run-check-from-assignments-and-progress-dialog) {#7537d4d76643407c9e86880f0e20a637}

1. Open the **Assignments and Progress** dialog.
1. To view the issues, click the **issue** **count**.
	- _Paratext opens a panel or updates one to show the Capitalization issues_.
1. Double-click the item in the list.
	- _The project window scrolls to show the text in question and selects the text Paratext thinks is potentially wrong_.
1. Make the corrections.
1. Click **Rerun**.

	:::caution
	
	You need to have permission to edit the relevant chapter to make the corrections.
	
	:::
	



### Setup Required[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4f#setup-required) {#a915f374331845938d9994c54a2699f3}


If Paratext determines that even more work on the inventories would be helpful before you run the check, it will display Setup Required instead of the numbers of issues.


This can happen even if you have worked on the inventories but left a few things undecided.


### Run Check across a range of books[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4f#run-check-across-a-range-of-books) {#c46bca07fe5d48ac908c845e05bd83af}

1. Open the **menu** for the project
1. Under **Tools**, click Run Basic Checks.
1. Select the **Capitalization** check and the book range you wish to check.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _Paratext opens a panel or updates one to show the Capitalization issues_.
