---
title: Exceptions (3.4h)
sidebar_position: 7
slug: /3.4h
---



Most checks have inventories or settings that allow you to record the rules governing those items so thoroughly that when you run the check all the issues found are things you need to correct in the text.


However, some checks seek to verify items which are not as consistent in what is valid and invalid. It is worth **leaving it as Unknown** so that the check continues to find it.


### To record that an occurrence is permissible[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4h#to-record-that-an-occurrence-is-permissible) {#55fa5b966718420c81451766bb2eb14a}

1. In the panel containing the issues, with the issues selected,
1. Click the **menu** button.
1. Under **Edit** there is a menu command **Deny**.

	> By using Deny, you are disagreeing with Paratext that this instance is an error. You are denying it is an error even though it should be an error according to the rules and settings.

		- _Paratext applies strikethrough to the issue in the list_.
1. Click **Rerun**,
	- _The specific instance of the issue will be hidden, Paratext notifies you that there are hidden denied issues_.

### View Denied Errors[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4h#view-denied-errors) {#ffa421ec4be5487a831e659988d759ab}

1. Open the **menu** for the panel.
1. Under **View**, click **Denied Messages**.
	- _The issues with the strikethrough are shown again_.

You can double-click on an issue to view it in the scripture window as usual.


### Remove the denial[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.4-Checks/3.4h#remove-the-denial) {#4b3c4c6b37e14482b658602e77457722}


If you realize an item has been incorrectly marked as an exception using Deny, you can remove the denial.

1. Open the **menu** for the panel.
1. Under **Edit**, click **Remove denial**.
	- _The strikethrough is removed_.

You would then either correct the error or mark it as valid in the associated inventory or settings.


**You should use Deny sparingly**. If you find yourself wanting to deny a lot of issues, you should **go back to the inventory or settings** related to the check and review if you can mark it as valid or use settings to reduce the number of spurious issues you are seeing when you run the check.


**Deny is just to be used for exceptions which cannot be handled some other way.**

