---
title: 14. PD - Printing Drafts
sidebar_position: 8
slug: /14.PD
---



**Introduction**
In this module you will learn how to print a draft of your translation for checking and revising.


**Where we are**
You have entered and checked your translation in Paratext 9 and are now ready to print out a copy. Your project must be registered before you can print.


**Why this is important**
It is much easier to revise and check your work on paper than on the computer. You can also give it to more people if it is on paper.


**What you are going to do**
You will first produce a PDF version of your translation, which you can print or share with others (including non-Paratext users). If necessary, you can copy the PDF file onto your USB stick and take it to a computer with a printer.


### 14.1 Create a PDF file {#f740f451aa7743f48368334d047f607d}


:::caution


Make sure you have completed the markers check before printing a draft. :::

- **≡ Tab**, under **Project** &gt; **Export Draft PDF**
- Check that your project is selected.
- Choose which book(s) and chapters or priority to print
- Choose the page settings as follows:
- Page size:
	- 210mm, 297mm (A4) or
	- 148mm, 210mm (A5)
- Columns: 1
- Margins:
	- 25 mm (for A4) or
	- 12 mm (for A5)
- Text body font: Charis SIL (or Charis SIL Compact)
- Size: 10 (or 11)
- Line spacing:
	- 1.0 (for single spacing)
- Click on the **Advanced** tab
- Choose the fonts
- Choose what you want in the **Running header** (the text at the top of the page).
- Check **mirror layout on odd and even pages**
- Make any other choices as needed.
- Click **OK** and wait, the file will open in your PDF reader.
	- _If there are marker errors, a message box will appear_.
		- Click **No**, then correct the errors and try again.

:::tip


The first time you print a draft it takes a long time collecting information on the fonts. But it will be much quicker the next time. :::


### 14.2 Print a PDF {#6197955885fd40169f2276406307f3b0}


In Adobe Reader

- (Make sure the PDF file is open.)
- **File** &gt; **Print**
- For A5
	- Choose **Booklet**
	- Orientation: **Portrait** (for newer printers or landscape for older printers especially Win7)
- To print double-sided
	- Click on the **Printer Properties** button
		- _A dialog is displayed which will may be different but will have a way of setting double-sided._ For example
		- Click on **Finishing**
		- Choose **duplex** or **two sided**.
		- Click **OK**
- Click **Print**

:::tip


If you want to follow a punctuation system (such as French) and have spaces automatically inserted before complex punctuation, then see a consultant to have changes made to your PrintDraftChanges.txt :::


### 14.3 Copy PDF file to a USB stick {#c4e75fa4f0c64ba69a55529aa384582e}


:::info


Paratext saves the PDF file in the PrintDrafts folder of your project folder. For example, C:\My Paratext 9 Projects\XXX\PrintDraft :::


:::tip


There are many ways to copy files. One method is described below. :::

- Hold the Windows Key and type **E**
	- _Windows Explorer opens._
- Go to your **My Paratext 8 Projects** folder.
- Double-click on your project folder
- Double-click the **PrintDraft** folder
- Right-click on the desired PDF file
- Choose **Send to**
- Choose your USB stick.
