---
title: USFM book names (5.1)
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /5.1
---



In this video we learn about some special USFM markers which contain different versions of the name of the Bible book for various purposes.


### USFM markers[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-5/5.1#usfm-markers) {#9369705f494f4da182f7be34f616b205}


**\h** marker is the top of page header. Before publishing, each book must have the \h marker.


**\toc1** contains the long or complete name of the book. It is often used to populate the Table of Contents (TOC).


**\toc2** contains a shorter version of the book name.


**\toc3** contains the abbreviation of the book name. It is often used in references.


**\mt** contains the major title of the book and can be in up to four parts mt1-4 so you can format different parts of the title differently.


### Scripture Reference Settings[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-5/5.1#scripture-reference-settings) {#eb0d63692603437995cba32a210a47d0}

1. Open the **menu** for the project
1. Under **Project**, click **Project settings**, then **Scripture Reference Settings**
1. Click on the **Books Names** tab.
1. Enter the book names in the dialog.

	:::tip
	
	This is also where an **administrator** can choose how these three names are used in the project.
	
	:::
	



### Conflict between \toc and Scripture reference settings[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-5/5.1#conflict-between-toc-and-scripture-reference-settings) {#3c9d7baf189b46ad99ede57f219e7453}

- Paratext automatically keeps the book names table and the project file up-to-date no matter where a name is added.
- If a name is edited and a conflict arises, Paratext will inform you of it **when you open the Scripture Reference Settings**.

	TIP


	An **administrator** can click Resolve Conflicts to view the problems and decide which version to use.


### Create new book[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-5/5.1#create-new-book) {#9666de25f745480eb512373ebb54018e}


When you create a new book, If the book names have already been entered,

- Paratext automatically inserts the name-related markers
- appropriate book names
- \h markers containing toc2

### Adding markers manually[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-5/5.1#adding-markers-manually) {#48cdc1d3de8c4cb088ba8d6d95ba7599}


If the book names were not entered when you created a new book, you can either add them manually to the book, **or** to the Scripture Reference Settings.


**Adding markers manually to the book**

1. Add the **\h** marker directly after the \id marker at the beginning of the book.
1. Then add the **TOC** markers should be entered in reverse order (3, 2, 1).
	- _The \toc markers will be added to the Scripture Reference Settings_.

**Adding markers manually to the Scripture Reference Settings**

1. Add the book names to the **Scripture Reference Settings**
1. Then do a **send/receive**
	- _The \toc markers with the book names will be automatically added to the book_.
1. Add the **\h** marker directly after the \id marker at the beginning of the book.
