---
title: Producing Interlinear glosses in Paratext (3.3)
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /3.3
---



The Paratext Interlinearizer aligns equivalent words in two languages using statistics. The accuracy of the scripture translation can not be judged based on the output of the statistical tool alone.


In the video we interlinearized Matthew 14:16.


### Open the interlinearizer {#a47300dae6534cc2807902f6ce9330e3}

- Click on the **menu for the project**.
- **Expand** the menu.
- Under **Tools**, click **Interlinearizer**.
	- _The Interlinearizer dialog box opens_.
- The Text to Interlinearize contains the name of the translation project.
- _If the correct project is not shown in the box, close the dialog and make sure you use the menu in the correct window_.
- For the model text we are going to use the back translation we have already made, the PTBTP project.
- Click on **OK**.
	- _It may take Paratext a while to do the calculations and make guesses_.

When all the glosses in the verse are red, it shows they are guesses. Because they are only guesses, we need to make sure that they are right.


:::tip


It is not necessary to click on each word to approve each gloss. We only need to look for any glosses that are not correct. 


:::


## Add a gloss {#2c591554741f426b8c81a4922c2c24e9}

- Click on the red line where the gloss would be
- Type in the gloss
- Click **Enter**.
	- _The word appears in black_.

The black color means this gloss has been chosen or approved for this word in this verse.


## Correct a gloss {#21319ab2324145f7a874674c7269f189}

- **Click** the gloss
	- _Paratext shows the list of guesses it has made for this word_
- Then **choose** the gloss from the list.
- OR **Type** in the correct gloss

## Approve Glosses {#1838a187e34f4e45aad50ad6e436a9e4}


When everything is correct,

- Click **Approve Glosses**
	- _Paratext will approve all the others that are still in red and move to the next verse_.

## Colors of Glosses {#f07d11a0501b46779448579231da9d3d}

- The **red** glosses have not been approved.
- The **blue** color means that gloss is approved for that word in a different verse.
- The **black** glosses have been approved in this verse.

## Break up (parse) words {#7f355a70471a4ac2bdee62f049390fc8}


For instance, ‘breads’ is a noun with a plural suffix on it.

- Click on the word (not the gloss but the word)
	- _Paratext shows the word parse link_.
- Click the word parse link
- Divide the word using a space to separate affixes and add a + at the beginning of the suffix to mark it as a suffix.

See the Help for more details.

- Add a gloss for each part
- Add a gloss for the whole word.

## Link words together to gloss as a unit {#8580f9eba40f4d419379db26099af889}

- Move the mouse between two of the words.
	- _A little chain image appears, that is split in two_.
- Click the chain image
	- _The chain image unites, and the two words are now linked_.
- Continue for all words of the phrase.
- Enter a gloss for each word and for the whole phrase.

You can learn more about the interlinearizer tool in the Help file.

