---
title: Adding Glossary Entries (1A.4a)
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /1A.4a
---



Some Bibles include a glossary at the back. A glossary is a special kind of dictionary that helps readers understand the Bible text by explaining special Biblical terms and providing information about people, places, events, or customs that many readers will not already know.


### Open the Biblical terms tool {#61f8746969824b2f88a2fbe1d697b0d2}

1. Open the project **menu**.
1. Expand the menu.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Biblical Terms**.
	- _The Biblical Terms Tool opens_.

### Search for a Biblical term {#ef441acb671b4c02b38e5ac9130dd430}

1. Select the language
1. Type in the search box.
	- _Wait after typing, and Paratext will display the results_.

### Add glossary entry {#89415f0532434aab8a6ece658d9896d9}

1. Double-click the rendering.
	- _The Edit Renderings dialog box opens_
1. Click the **Glossary tab**.
1. In the Citation form box, start typing the headword of the glossary entry.
	- _As you type, Paratext displays existing glossary entries which match what you have typed_.

Use an existing entry

- If one of these was the right one, we could click it to link this rendering to the existing glossary entry.

Add a new entry

1. To add a new entry, keep typing the citation
1. Click the definition field and type a definition
	- _The definition can contain standard format markers if needed to format the text_.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _The new glossary entry has been saved in the glossary_.

### Edit a glossary entry {#8c156d4fd1414259ac76db328054c317}

1. Double-click a rendering
	- _The_ _**Edit Renderings**_ _dialog box opens_.
1. Click on the **Glossary tab**
1. Edit the glossary entry as needed.
