---
title: Collaboration tools (4.1)
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /4.1
---



:::caution


Upgrade Paratext Live has changed in Paratext 9.3. See the [**Paratext manual for details**](file:///C:/Users/jjpdq/Documents/paratextmanual/versioned_docs/version-9.3/Training-Manual/05-Stage-4/20.Collaboration-tools.md) 


:::


We have already seen how to collaborate with Send/Receive. There are times when several people need to look at the same text, and perhaps edit it together. Paratext Live allows everyone to look at the text on their own computer and see the changes being made in real time.


Paratext Live can use

- Internet
- a local network,
- offline WiFi router, or
- hotspot with mobile data disabled.

**Pre-requisites**

- Before you start Paratext Live all participants should Send/Receive the project.
	- _Paratext will tell you that you need to Send/Receive_.

**Start Paratext Live**

- Open the **menu** for the project.
- Under **Tools**, click **Paratext Live**.
- Or use the **icon** on the toolbar.
- Click **Start/Join Live session**.
:::info

	_If you have not turned on Autosave in Paratext Settings, the Live session will inform you it will be turned on automatically for the duration of the session_. 


	:::

- Paratext then asks if you are the **primary editor**.
- If you are not the primary editor, wait for one of the other participants to click Start as Primary Editor.
	- _Don’t press cancel as that will cancel your joining the live session_.
- If you are the primary editor, click **Start as Primary Editor**.

:::tip


With a session active, the Paratext Live button is green. 


:::


**Unshared changes from Tools**


Examples of these unshared changes are to spelling status, Parallel passage status, Biblical Terms and their identified renderings, and Notes.

- Click the Paratext Live button on the toolbar, then click “**Exchange all files**”.
	- _All of the users in the Paratext Live session then receive updates to these files_.

:::caution


Changes from all users are shared, **but if two people have changed the exact same item differently, only one person’s change will be saved**. 


:::


**End the Paratext Live session**

- Click the Paratext Live button and then click **End/leave Live session**.
	- _If you are the Primary Editor, you will see this message box_.
- Click **End Session normally**.
- Do a send/receive

**Paratext 9.2 and 9.3**


:::caution Upgrade

- In Paratext 9.2, if one of the participants upgraded, **all** participants had to upgrade.
- In Paratext 9.3, all participants must use the same server. **Paratext 9.3 allows you to choose which server**. From 9.3 you can work with someone on 9.1 or someone else on 9.2 (just not at the same time).

:::


**More help**

- For more help, search for **live** in the search box on the title bar.
	- _There are lots of useful helpful topics to help you use Paratext Live_.
