---
title: Achieving consistency (3.1b)
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /3.1b
---



In this video we are going to look at some additional ways that the Biblical Terms Tool can help us achieve a consistent translation.


**Set the verse filter**

1. Click the verses filter and select “**Choose**”._The Choose dialog box opens._
1. Click the Books tab.
1. Click New Testament.
	- _All the books in the New Testament are now selected._
1. Click [**OK**].

**Find a biblical term**

1. Click in the Find box.
1. Type the text to find.

**To correct a typo**

1. Click on the term
1. Click the **Edit** hyperlink.
1. Edit the text in this small window.
1. Click **OK** to save the changes.
	- _Paratext now recognises the rendering_.

**Approve a wording even though different**

- Click on the **red X**.
	- _This tells Paratext that the wording is appropriate in this context even though there is not a specific, explicit rendering_.

**Add a note to remind to discuss this rendering**

1. Double-click the first column next to the term.
	- _A note window opens_
1. Type the note…
1. Click [**OK**].

**Add another rendering**

1. Select the text
1. Click **Add Rendering**.
	- _The new rendering is added to the row in the Biblical Terms table_.

**Change a synonym**


For consistency’s sake we should change it.

1. Click the **Edit** hyperlink.
1. Change the word.
1. Click **OK**.

**Found column**

- When all occurrences of the biblical term have an identified rendering a tick is shown in the found column.
- When the symbol in the Found column includes a tiny **X** it is to remind us that one of the renderings is a permitted omission of a rendering.
