---
title: Filters and guesses (3.1c)
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /3.1c
---



In this video we will learn a new way to open the Biblical Terms Tool, how to filter the Biblical Terms list by category, and how to make Paratext guess renderings.


### Open the Biblical Terms window to a specific verse range[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#open-the-biblical-terms-window-to-a-specific-verse-range) {#9156aceaf0754ba1af9264d96f5d8598}

1. Place your cursor in the verse
1. Right-click in the text.
	- _You have three choices_:
	- _View Biblical Terms for Current Verse(s), Current Chapter(s), Current Book_.
1. Click **Current Book**.
	- _The Full Biblical Terms Window opens with the verse filter set to current Book_.

### Filter on categories[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#filter-on-categories) {#0185b6b470064beda11ed6d9d0a6da00}


The Biblical Terms listed include names, attributes, beings…

1. Click on the **Current Biblical Terms Filter**.
1. Click **New Filter…**
	- _The Biblical Terms Filter dialog box opens_.
1. Select the category **Name**.
1. Type a name for the filter in the box labelled “**saved selections**”.
1. Click the **save icon** button to save the new filter.
1. Click [**OK**] to apply the filter.
	- _The list is filtered to the Biblical Terms with the category ‘name’_.

### Guess renderings[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#guess-renderings) {#7369bd6558d843b0beadb01375c27fd0}


The guess renderings feature uses statistics to guess which words in the translation are probably the rendering of which Biblical Term. It can be quite accurate at guessing proper names.

1. Open the menu for the **Biblical Terms** window.
1. Under Tools, click **Guess Renderings**.
	- _The Guess Renderings dialog box opens. By default, it already has the Name category selected_.
1. Optionally, you can use a model text.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _Paratext analyzes the texts and makes guesses of_ _**all**_ _names in the project_.
	- _When it finishes, it informs us that all the guessed renderings are highlighted in orange_.
1. Click [**OK**] to dismiss the message.

### Approve guessed renderings[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#approve-guessed-renderings) {#5a22b03a71604ca09172a138f5b2f6f7}


Renderings with an orange background are guessed, approved renderings have a white background. Guessed renderings should be reviewed and approved or corrected by a member of the team.


### Approve renderings one at a time[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#approve-renderings-one-at-a-time) {#00a986fba1df4721bfd8581f1c18aab6}

1. Double-clicking the renderings to open the Edit Renderings box.
1. Click the checkbox **Approve Guessed Renderings**.
1. Click **OK**.
	- _The rendering no longer has an orange background_.

### Approve many renderings[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#approve-many-renderings) {#9e0f081b3ff24577a5cfa8fe6ec977c1}

1. Select the rows you want to approve by using Shift click for a span or Ctrl click for individual rows.
1. Open the menu for the Biblical Terms window.
1. Under Edit, click **Approve Guessed Renderings of Selected Terms**. (or Ctrl+G.)
	- _The renderings of all the selected terms have been approved_.

### Correct renderings[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#correct-renderings) {#951414df3af745c8be5fd07eeedf8917}


Not all the guesses will be correct.

1. Double-click the rendering.
1. Type or paste the correct rendering.
1. Click [**OK**].

### Remove all guessed renderings[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#remove-all-guessed-renderings) {#333a419a11e4481281e1e0ed0f972c2e}

- Menu &gt; under **Tools** &gt; **Clear Guessed Renderings**.

### Mark Renderings as correctly spelled[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-3/3.1-Biblical-terms/3.1c#mark-renderings-as-correctly-spelled) {#e62afb2c53c5494a8d5eecadb5ec3174}


After you approve a large number of renderings, it is helpful to mark those words as correctly spelled.

1. Open the **menu** for the Biblical Terms window.
1. Under **Tools**, click **Mark Renderings as Correctly Spelled**.
	- _A message box opens informing you of how many renderings will be marked as correct and checking whether you want to go ahead_.
1. Click **Yes** to go ahead or **No** to cancel.
	- _When you click Yes, all of the manually added or approved renderings will be marked as being correctly spelled_.
