---
title: 14. PD - Printing Drafts
sidebar_position: 8
slug: /14.PD
---



**Introduction**  
In this module you will learn how to print a draft of your translation for checking and revising.


**Before you start**
You have entered and checked your translation in Paratext 9 and are now ready to print out a copy. Your project must be registered before you can print.


**Why this is important**
It is much easier to revise and check your work on paper than on the computer. You can also give it to more people if it is on paper.


**What you are going to do**
You will first produce a PDF version of your translation, which you can print or share with others (including non-Paratext users). If necessary, you can copy the PDF file onto your USB stick and take it to a computer with a printer.


## 14.1 Create a PDF file {#6416c1ed11ab4a7ebb4214de25a51ffc}


:::caution


Make sure you have completed the **markers check** before printing a draft.


:::

1. **≡ Tab**, under **Project** &gt; **Export Draft PDF**
1. Check that your project is selected.
1. Choose which book(s) and chapters or priority to print.

### Choose the page settings as follows {#b0dad29c80724c1391acf91cc0e75592}


Choose the page settings as follows

1. Page size:
	- 210mm, 297mm (A4) or
	- 148mm, 210mm (A5)
1. Columns: 1
1. Margins:
	- 25 mm (for A4) or
	- 12 mm (for A5)

### Choose the font for the text {#c6afdb36c85547349f2fa7acfdac18b2}

1. Text body font: Charis SIL (or Charis SIL Compact)
1. Size: 10 (or 11)

### Choose the layout settings {#b9ee05697bf3480fa7c14bdb477f7e03}

1. Line spacing:
	- 1.0 (for single spacing)

### Choose the advanced settings {#ab73d7d26be54064b9c07b2d8a8841ef}

1. Click on the **Advanced** tab
1. Choose the fonts
1. Choose what you want in the **Running header** (the text at the top of the page).
1. Check **mirror layout on odd and even pages**
1. Make any other choices as needed.
1. Click **OK** and wait, the file will open in your PDF reader.
	- _If there are marker errors, a message box will appear_.
		- Click **No**, then correct the errors and try again.

:::tip


The first time you print a draft it takes a long time collecting information on the fonts. But it will be much quicker the next time.


:::


## 14.2 Print a PDF {#5735f779dc754b3b85f25c39dbe7c950}


In Adobe Reader

1. (Make sure the PDF file is open.)
1. **File** &gt; **Print**
1. For A5
	- Choose **Booklet**
	- Orientation: **Portrait** (for newer printers or landscape for older printers especially Win7)
1. To print double-sided
	- Click on the **Printer Properties** button
		- _A dialog is displayed which will may be different but will have a way of setting double-sided._ For example
		- Click on **Finishing**
		- Choose **duplex** or **two sided**.
		- Click **OK**
	- Click **Print**

:::tip

If you want to follow a punctuation system (such as French) and have spaces automatically inserted before complex punctuation, then see a consultant to have changes made to your PrintDraftChanges.txt

:::




## 14.3 Copy PDF file to a USB stick {#18af32063a524ceabc376eb309a931af}


:::info


Paratext saves the PDF file in the PrintDrafts folder of your project folder. For example, C:\My Paratext 9 Projects\XXX\PrintDraft


:::


:::tip


There are many ways to copy files. One method is described below.


:::

1. Hold the Windows Key and type **E**
	- _Windows Explorer opens._
1. Go to your **My Paratext 8 Projects** folder.
1. Double-click on your project folder
1. Double-click the **PrintDraft** folder
1. Right-click on the desired PDF file
1. Choose **Send to**
1. Choose your USB stick.
