---
title: How to Insert (2.5a)
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /2.5a
---



Project Notes make it easy to communicate with your translation team or translation consultant, or even to make notes for yourself, about day-to-day translation questions, but they are not published.


In this video we will see how to insert notes, choose which part of the verse the note is about, and who it is assigned to, if anyone. We will also learn how to open a previously added note to read it.


### Insert a note[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.5-Project-notes/2.5a#insert-a-note) {#0294eb11800349aeb5fb6ca982ad35cf}

1. Click the word that you wish to write a note about.
1. Click the **menu** for the project.
1. Under **Insert** click **Project Note**. OR
1. Alternatively, **right-click** the word and select “**Insert Note**.
	- _The Note window opens, ready for you to type the new note_.
1. Type your note
1. Click [**OK**]
	- _The note is saved and the window closes. A red flag shows in the text_.

### View a note[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.5-Project-notes/2.5a#view-a-note) {#3ca6c99ba26247dd831fc0a6cd1eacc8}

- Hover the mouse pointer over the flag,
	- _A summary of the note is displayed_.

### See details of a note[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.5-Project-notes/2.5a#see-details-of-a-note) {#7c000a9f4e424209ba05cf01e35d12d1}

- Click on the flag.
	- _The Note window opens to show you all the details of the note_.

### Assign a note[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.5-Project-notes/2.5a#assign-a-note) {#8843b0592c1949b59bb3df864da4d552}


You can choose a specific person to assign it to, if needed.

1. Click **Assign to** list
1. Choose a team member
1. Click **OK**.

### To insert a note in a footnote[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.5-Project-notes/2.5a#to-insert-a-note-in-a-footnote) {#8ffdbb25b0cc4a549c496f7e38217380}

1. Click the footnote caller to open it.
1. Select the word or phrase which you need to discuss in the note,
	- make sure you _do not include any markers_ in your selection.
1. Right-click and select “**Insert Note**”.
	- _The Note window opens, with the text I selected shown in bold at the top_.

### Write a note about a whole verse[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-2/2.5-Project-notes/2.5a#write-a-note-about-a-whole-verse) {#cb67014584284772a6c8dd14bf83ed7e}

1. Right-click once on the verse number,
1. Select **Insert Note**.
	- _The Note window opens, with the entire verse shown in bold_.
