---
title: Notes List, How to Filter and Sort (2.5e)
sidebar_position: 4
slug: /2.5e
---



In this video we will learn how to filter and sort notes in the Notes List. Filter, search and sort options are available at the top of the Notes List window.


**Open Notes List**

- Click the project **menu**, under **Tools**.

**Notes Filter**


Allows us to filter by the _status_ of the notes, who they are _assigned_ to, or by their _tag_.

- Click the **Notes filter** to see the other filter options.
- To select a different filter, click the option.
	- **Unresolved** = only unresolved notes.
	- **All Notes** = Resolved Notes + Unresolved notes.
	- **Green checkmark** or tick = resolved.
	- “Unresolved Notes **Assigned** to Me”
	- **Unread notes** = yellow background
	- **Specific tags**

**Reopen a resolved note**

- click the **Edit** button and then click **Unresolve**.
	- _This note is now unresolved and has the red flag icon again_.

**Verses Filter**


This controls the scripture range.

- Click the **Verses Filter** to view the filter options for scripture range.
- Current Book.
- Current chapter
- Chapters assigned to me …

**Sort order (third) option**

- Click to see the options.
- **Sort by Verse** = order of occurrence in the scripture text.
- **Sort by Date** = date and time of the _most_ _recent action_ for the notes.
- **Sort by Assignee** = a person or the team

**Access notes from Assignments and Progress**

- Click Assignments and progress button
- In My Tasks, unresolved Project Notes are listed.

## To view the notes {#cfdc4f0e568d461b9d5d0f3d719a5f7e}

- Click the issue count.
	- _The Notes List is automatically filtered for the selected set of Notes_.

**Display combination of active filters**

- Hover over the Notes filter.

**Back and Forward buttons**

- Allows you to go back and forth between previous _filter combinations_.
