---
title: Print a draft (2.4a)
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /2.4a
---



To allow you to check or test the translation, you probably will need to print it on paper. Paratext has several ways to print out your project but don’t use Print!


### Export Draft to PDF {#923297fb07bd46ea8b73a3aab9436654}

- Project Menu &gt; “**Export Draft to PDF**” command.
	- _The Export Draft to PDF dialog box opens_.

**Choose from the various configuration options**

1. Select the chapters or click **Choose** to select the books you need to print
1. Click “**Combine Books**” to put all books into one PDF file.
1. Choose the **page size** (A4 or Letter).
	- Getting it right is crucial.
1. You can set the width of the margins, columns, font and font size, and basic layout options, such as justifying paragraphs.
1. Add a note about the purpose of the printout in the comment field.
1. The Advanced tab has a number of advanced options regarding font, headers, versification and pictures.
1. When the settings are ready to try, click **OK**.
	- _Paratext creates the export… then the PDF file opens in a PDF reader_.

### Changing layout or formatting {#c8283a026a4047b7a5fcdc3b60fbdbaf}

1. Close the file and use “**Export Draft to PDF**” again.
	- _The settings you used last time will be preselected_.
1. Change some settings to improve the output.
1. Click **OK**.

### Print from the PDF reader program {#ab88a2349f9048b99fc99d23c1bfb1d6}

- When you are happy with the appearance of the PDF file, use **Print** in the PDF reader.
	- _The pages will be printed exactly as they are shown on the screen_.

### Open the PDF file after closing it {#0626a987e69042f7b5f42fc8f124f9dd}

1. Open **Windows Explorer**
1. Navigate to your Paratext project folder, which is usually at the root of the C drive.
	- _By default, this folder is called My Paratext (8 or) 9 Projects_.
1. Open the folder for the relevant project.
1. Open the **PrintDraft** folder.
1. Double-click the PDF file to open it.
1. You can now print the extra copies you need.

	:::tip
	
	You could also copy the file onto a USB drive, or send it to someone in an email as needed.
	
	:::
	



### Help about the options {#1e2b404557fe40479ce642ab1e0e7408}

1. First try the **guide** on the Export Draft to PDF dialog,
1. Alternatively **search** in the Help file for _“export draft”_.
	- _The top Help topic_ “How do I make a draft printout of my translation?” _is the relevant one for this dialog_ box.

### PTXPrint {#cf5bd207f0e047c2bba7dd0cdaec1526}


PTXPrint is a separate program which similarly creates a PDF file from a Paratext project. It has far more configuration options, such as

- more precise picture placement,
- fine-grained control of footnotes,
- headings, and
- columns.
- It can print diglots and include page borders.

To learn more, go to [http://software.sil.org/ptxprint/](http://software.sil.org/ptxprint/)

