---
title: How to use the checking tools (1.4)
sidebar_position: 0
slug: /1.4
---



Paratext has several tools for checking the consistency and accuracy of a translation. These Checks are listed in the My Tasks view in the Assignments and progress window. Some checks require some set-up.


It is important to correct any problems with chapter and verse markers, so Paratext can show exactly where problems are found.


You do not need to have finished drafting a book before you start looking at the issues.


## To view Chapter/Verse Number issues {#b14861374752480297a0ccab7f7afea3}

1. Click the issue count.
	- _Paratext lists the items in a window panel_.
1. Close the **Assignments and progress window**.

You may need to adjust your window layout to view the issues and the translation in a convenient way.

- Double click an issue
	- _Paratext moves to that reference_.

### Typical issues {#aa3f6b40bdcc4304a6917265b64ef903}

- **Duplicated verse**: This can often be due to an error later in this chapter.
- **Verse Number in heading** : When there is a section heading followed by a cross reference heading, you need to add a paragraph before the verse number (e.g. \p).
- **Verse Missing** :
	- _Is there a space between the v and the verse number? If not add a space._
	- _Is there is a space after the verse number?_
	- _Is there a space after the \? If so, delete it._
	- _Click_ _**Rerun**__, click_ _**Yes**_ _to save the changes._

Next time you open the Assignments and Progress dialog it will display the up-to-date number of issues left to be dealt with for this check.


## To run the checks without a project plan {#201ff13f518d4a6693be263a259c0c36}

1. Open the menu for the **project** and under Tools, click **Run Basic Checks**.
1. Click **OK** to run the selected checks.
	- _Paratext lists the items in a window panel_.

There will be a Verses Missing issue shown for a span of text that hasn’t been drafted yet.


**Rerun** the check whenever you want to remove resolved issues from the list.

