---
title: Character Inventory (1A.7a)
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /1A.7a
---



In this video we will learn how to tell Paratext which characters it has found in the text are valid and which are invalid. This set-up task is required for the **Character Check**.


Before Paratext can check that the team has only used characters which are relevant for this project, someone needs to tell Paratext what the valid characters are!

- Any character in the language settings dialog is automatically marked as valid.
- If a significant proportion of characters are new and no one has yet marked if they are valid or invalid, the Assignments and Progress dialog will show “Set up Required” next to that check.
- It may be that you deal with all the unknown characters in one book and later find you need to deal with a few more when you move on to check the next book.

### To set up the characters check[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-1/Basic-checks/1A.7a#to-set-up-the-characters-check) {#97003efec52a4a06ba608936af484816}

- In the Assignments and progress window, click “**Set Up Required**”.
	- _The Characters Inventory opens_.

Here you can tell Paratext whether characters are valid or invalid for this project.

1. Select a character.
1. Review where it is used
1. Click the relevant button: **Valid**, **Invalid** or **Unknown**.

### Change the status of multiple characters[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-1/Basic-checks/1A.7a#change-the-status-of-multiple-characters) {#35a1af62e4f24863883cb66a7b67ccc5}

1. Click the first character
1. Use shift with your second click.
1. To save the changes, click **OK**.

If sufficient characters have been marked as valid or invalid, the Assignments and Progress dialog will now show the number of issues in the current book.


### To re-open the Characters Inventory[](https://manual.paratext.org/Video-summaries/Stage-1/Basic-checks/1A.7a#to-re-open-the-characters-inventory) {#9e9475a79c7d46be8c4aa3c1f741552f}

1. Open the **menu for the project**.
1. **Expand** the menu.
1. Hover the mouse over **Checking Inventories.**
1. Click **Characters Inventory**.
	- _The Characters Inventory re-opens_.
